<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	
	<title>Chapter Forty Seven: In from the Cold</title>
	<link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h3>Chapter Forty Seven: In from the Cold</h3>

<p class="noindent">I stared out the second-story window as the rain poured down with a tremendous roar. Somewhere, far above, the sun must be shining down, but you could be forgiven for thinking otherwise. I couldn’t see even a hundred feet in the dim, gray gloom. Every few minutes, a flash of lightning would cast sharp silhouettes through the pounding rain, accompanied by the powerful, rattling boom of thunder.</p>
<p>It had been raining for more than twelve hours, and showed no sign of relenting.</p>
<p>The world outside was mud. A small river flowed along what had been a ditch along the edge of the construction site. Several of the smaller tunnels, despite their working pumps, were partially flooded by the massive inundation. Even here, in the upper levels of the incomplete office building, everything was soaking wet. The wind was completely wild, whipping the rain around in random directions and getting water everywhere. The air was icy. Despite the pair of blankets draped over me, and Starlight tucked in close at my side, it was still unpleasantly cold.</p>
<p>We’d won, and now we sat there, bunkered down against the storm, with no idea of what to do next. So far, the consensus was that we would wait out the storm, then see what the situation was.</p>
<p>That left us with little to do. I did some more recordings, but even with the glut of activity in the previous two days, I soon found myself with little to occupy myself with.</p>
<p>The earbud in my left ear chirped and warbled, the volume turned down low. Serenity’s communications were all nonsense. I’m not sure what the final straw had been, but they’d finally chosen to change encryption keys. I’d say that it was too little, too late, but they still had probably two hundred soldiers out there. Our soldiers had to remain alert and ready. Even E.F.S. offered no comfort; this close to Serenity, the top levels were within detection range, filling the compass with hostile markers in all directions. If Serenity decided to attack, there would be no warning.</p>
<p>What actually happened was… something else.</p>
<p>It was Axle, of all ponies, who radioed me. His voice was hushed. “Hey, Whisper? Get your buggy ass to the north side of the main building, ground floor. Bring that big bitch with you. And not a fucking word to anypony that I talked to you!”</p>
<p>I blinked in confusion at the strange message.</p>
<p>“The hell?” Starlight said, stirring at my side and looking just as confused as me.</p>
<p>Echo lay nearby, frowning down at her own PipBuck. “I do not trust that stallion. It is clear he has no good wishes for you. And is he asking for Sickle, or is he referring to me in such crude terms?”</p>
<p>Sickle grunted and snorted, her head jerking from the floor as she woke. “Urgh, wha?” She raised a hoof, wiping at her armor-clad face. “Somepony say my name? What’s up?”</p>
<p>I groaned softly as I stood, leaving behind the tenuous warmth of my blankets. “I’m not sure.”</p>
<p>She slowly stretched, giving a deep yawn before asking, “There going to be a fight?”</p>
<p>I hesitated, not entirely sure. “I don’t think so. Probably not.”</p>
<p>She wearily pushed herself up, armor rattling. “Well fuck, probably not is maybe yes. I’m in.”</p>
<p>I couldn’t help a wry smile. “You have such an amusingly strange sense of optimism.”</p>
<p>“Yeah, I’m just a ray of fucking sunshine,” Sickle replied, teeth bared in a grin.</p>
<p>I headed out, with Starlight, Sickle, and Echo all following me. Dusty remained behind, electing to go over his gear once more.</p>
<p>In the depths of the building, the pounding rain turned into a more distant, deep roar, echoing down the hallways. The stairs down were slippery, with the bare concrete coated in water and mud, but we managed without incident.</p>
<p>On the ground floor, as we made our way toward the north face of the building, a new sound reached my ears: yelling.</p>
<p>I walked faster. The yelling was a jumble of anger and eagerness, like a crowd cheering for blood. As I entered the last hallway, I could see a trio of Mareford ponies, weapons in teeth, eyes narrowed. They gave some shouts as well, buried under the rest, but theirs were firm and authoritative to the crowd’s emotion. One cast a glance down the hallway, seeing me, and lowered her weapon, her glare returning to the ponies they were shouting at.</p>
<p>I was almost to the corner when I heard a new voice behind the others. A cry of pain. A shout, pleading in tone, full of pain and fear. A voice that was clearly not a pony.</p>
<p>I prefer to act with a clear and rational mind, but emotion can be a useful tool. So, as the adrenaline flowed, it was with a clear and rational mind that I put on a mask of rage, eyes narrowed and teeth bared as I rounded the corner.</p>
<p>Several Trotsen ponies had confronted the Mareford ponies, their jeers and anger shriveling as they saw me. Eyes went wide, and several staggered back as I advanced. Past them, the rest of the large room was filled with at least fifty Trotsen ponies. Some, at the edges, looked displeased or concerned, with a few trying to calm down the more agitated ponies. It was those angrier ponies, at the center of the room, who drew my attention.</p>
<p>There was shouting. Jeering. Calls for blood and pain and worse. At their center was a lone, muddy changeling. A pony was pulling on her foreleg, and her pleading was cut off by a cry of pain as he twisted on it. I saw blood running from her mouth. Another pony was staggering back, having just delivered a kick to her abdomen.</p>
<p>The dim room abruptly turned green as I lit up my horn, eyes snapping to me as I gave a shout that could have made Sickle proud. “Enough!”</p>
<p>The nearest ponies staggered back as I stalked into the room, my head high and posture imposing. The ponies at the center of the room hesitated for just a moment at the sudden intrusion. I used that pause to speak first, voice cold and hard.</p>
<p>“What are you doing?” I demanded, fixing the ponies with my best glare.</p>
<p>The mare who had delivered the kick looked up to me, perhaps emboldened by her anger. “Fuck off. She’s ours. We caught this cockroach trying to sneak in.”</p>
<p>The changeling gasped and croaked out, “P-please, I—”</p>
<p>The stallion holding her swung a hoof at her head. “Shut your fucking—”</p>
<p>He didn’t get the chance to land the blow. My magic grabbed around his chest and foreleg and tore him away, throwing him against the nearby wall. It took a tremendous amount of magic, but I had plenty to spare and little reason to hold back. Heck, there’s no way I could have even managed such a display of magical might in my natural form. Having a queen’s horn had advantages.</p>
<p>The stallion collapsed to the bare concrete floor, groaning as he tried to get his hooves under himself again. I continued to advance into the center of the room, with several ponies stepping back. “Do not mistake my general civility for timidity,” I said, teeth still bared as I looked around the room. “Let me make this perfectly clear to you: I am here to protect <i>people</i> from cruelty, whether they are pony or changeling. Anyone who insists on <i>behaving</i> like a raider will be <i>treated</i> like a raider.”</p>
<p>The mare in front of me had apparently regained her confidence, puffing up her chest as she squared off with me. “Hey, fuck you! Trotsen ain’t going to be pushed around by you fucking bugs. You don’t scare us.”</p>
<p>Sickle gave a loud, snorting laugh. “That’s because you’re a fucking moron.”</p>
<p>The mare shot Sickle a glare. “Oh, fuck off. I’m talking to queen bitch.”</p>
<p>“You’re about to get torn in half by that queen bitch if you don’t watch your fucking mouth,” Sickle said, advancing a step. “I mean, shit. I’ve seen her walk through a fucking mountain of corpses to get here. She’s wiped out raiders, mercs, monsters, big fucking robots, and all sorts of other shit. She’s probably the most dangerous cunt I’ve ever met. Fuck, why else do you think I’d tag along with her?</p>
<p>“But you know what?” Her muzzle split into a savage, almost manic grin. “All those fights, all that killing, and I ain’t ever seen her even <i>half</i> as pissed as you dumb motherfuckers got her right now.”</p>
<p>The mare glanced my way. I met the look with a cold, hard glare.</p>
<p>“And she’s the <i>nice</i> one,” Sickle growled, drawing the mare’s attention back to her. “She’s the one always trying to help ponies and shit. Me, I’m just here for a fucking fight. So how about it, little bitch?” Her hoof suddenly raised, thumping into the mare’s chest and shoving her back several steps. “You talk a big fucking game for a cunt who can’t even fight a scrawny little bug without somepony else holding them down. Come on. Try a pony that ain’t held back, you little chicken-shit. See how that ends for you.”</p>
<p>The mare regained her balance, glaring back, but smartly chose to not take Sickle’s invitation.</p>
<p>Sickle advanced another step, and while the mare held her ground, she still didn’t retort. Sickle followed with a sneer. “Pussy. Ass. <i>Bitch</i>.” She turned away with a dry laugh. “This is fucking pathetic.”</p>
<p>The gathered ponies grumbled, some glaring back at Sickle, but none challenged her. It seemed the appropriate moment to step in. “Enough,” I said, looking to Echo. “Take and bubble the changeling.”</p>
<p>The changeling, who had remained still during the confrontation, floated from the bare concrete floor, a purple shield snapping into being around her. As she floated over to us, I looked around at the gathered ponies. “This fight isn’t about ponies versus changelings. It’s about right versus wrong. There are still hundreds of Serenity’s soldiers out there. Fight them. But if they are captured, or surrender, then they will be treated fairly. Period.”</p>
<p>I turned to walk away, leaving on a note of finality. I heard some murmurs behind me, some clearly angry, but ignored them. Echo watched over her shoulder, likely waiting for an attack.</p>
<p>Several more Mareford soldiers had arrived, and all were relaxing now that the situation was resolved. The soldier who had first caught sight of me even gave a nod as I passed, which I silently returned.</p>
<p>The moment we were in the hall and walking away, my hard expression crumbled. My ears fell, my head sinking.</p>
<p>I don’t like using threats and strong-hoof tactics. Generally, I see them as a failure of reason, but I also knew that they were tools to be used in the right situation. However mixed my feelings might be, I felt this was one of those situations. Trotsen ponies seemed to recognize and respect strength, and I wanted to make it perfectly clear that this behavior would not be tolerated. I think I had delivered that point.</p>
<p>The walk back was in silence, aside from Sickle, who walked along with a happy strut. “You know, I think I’m starting to enjoy this whole ‘talking’ shit.” At least she was in a good mood.</p>
<p>Dusty was on the radio when we returned, engaged in a hasty exchange with Two Bits. By now, word had filtered up to him. Dusty looked up from his PipBuck, first at me, then at the changeling. “Is everything okay?”</p>
<p>“It’s been resolved,” I said, a bit of the earlier firmness lingering in my tone. “I may have to abuse my apparent position of power.”</p>
<p>“Oh?”</p>
<p>“I declared that anyone acting like a raider would be treated like a raider, regardless of whether their victim is a pony or a changeling. I’d appreciate it if you could make that an official stance of the army.”</p>
<p>Dusty gave a snort. “I’d have thought that was perfectly damn clear, but yeah, we’ll do that.”</p>
<p>“Thank you,” I said, looking back to Echo and gesturing for her to follow.</p>
<p>Sickle flopped down to rest again, while Echo and Starlight followed me into the next room.</p>
<p>I sat with a long, deep sigh. Starlight sat beside me, her movements slow and cautious. Her side brushed gently against my carapace. Her eyes were full of worry.</p>
<p>“Are you okay?” she asked, voice quiet.</p>
<p>I gave a slow, tired nod. I felt like I could fall asleep right then and there, as if it would let everything pass me by, but there was more to do. “Could you get out your medical supplies?”</p>
<p>As she quickly dug through her bags, I looked back to Echo. “You can release her.”</p>
<p>Echo frowned. “I do not think that is a good idea.”</p>
<p>“She couldn’t possibly kill me before either of us could stop her. It will be fine.”</p>
<p>“I still feel that you are excessively optimistic in your evaluation of potential risks,” she said, but she lowered the changeling to the ground, the bubble of purple energy vanishing.</p>
<p>The changeling was in pretty poor shape. She lay on the bare floor, her breathing rough and ragged as she watched me with wide, frightened eyes. Mud still clung thickly to her legs, with smears and spatters in many places. The side of her muzzle was smeared with blood, which ran down to trickle from a fang. Her carapace was discolored in a few places where she had been struck hard enough to bruise through the exoskeleton. Surface cracks crossed her cheek, back, and flank, with a full-depth crack running for several inches along the side of her chest. She held her leg—with a PipBuck still buckled to it—tight to her chest, protecting and cushioning the injury.</p>
<p>I sighed, then reached out with my magic, gently cradling her. Her mouth opened, wavering for a moment before shutting and remaining silent. She trembled as she continued to stare at me, terrified. I couldn’t even blame her. A changeling queen holds a special place of reverence and awe. It is a remarkably short step from awe to terror.</p>
<p>“Here,” I said, floating over a healing potion. She flinched, eying it carefully. “I want to apologize for how you were treated. We may find ourselves as enemies, but that doesn’t excuse what they did.”</p>
<p>She was still trembling, eyes turned back to me. She ignored the potion. Her mouth opened, wavered, and shut again. Her eyes were watering.</p>
<p>“What’s your name?” I asked, my voice quiet and gentle, prompting her.</p>
<p>She hesitated, but finally managed to croak out a word. “Calypter.”</p>
<p>“Calypter. I like the name.” I floated the potion a little closer. “Here, drink up.” She finally relented, taking a slow and careful swig. While she was busy with that, I floated up a washcloth from the supplies, gently removing some of the mud.</p>
<p>There was something surreal about it. She was so tiny and fragile beside me, and I had to remind myself that she was about the same size as I was in my natural form. I think she might have even been taller than me. Supporting her in my magic, gently wiping away the mud from her carapace, it felt like an almost motherly tenderness, like she was a hurt child I was comforting. Yet the truth was that she was probably a well-trained soldier, a survivor of the previous days’ of fighting. Or, possibly, an Infiltrator trying to pull a trick.</p>
<p>She hissed softly as the crack along her side sealed itself, leaving only a thin line. I gently gripped her PipBuck, turning the screen upwards as I switched it to the medical screen and read the information there. “Well, it’s not perfect,” I said, “but at least it’s an improvement. Now, I apologize, but I’m going to have to take this, at least for the time being.”</p>
<p>Her mouth opened to object, but shut again, merely staring at the device as I unbuckled it and set it aside.</p>
<p>I returned to cleaning away the mud. “So, those ponies say they caught you trying to sneak in. What really happened?”</p>
<p>She slowly twisted, trying to pull free of my magic, and I released her. She pushed herself up, wincing, but finally got herself into a sitting posture. She took several slow, deep breaths, her expression steadily setting. When she finally spoke, her eyes were firm and focused, though she couldn’t quite look me in the face. Only the faintest of tremble showed behind the determination. “I came to… talk. To you.”</p>
<p>Now that was interesting, I thought. I carefully maintained my expression of soft neutrality, casting a quick glance to the confiscated PipBuck. “You approached them… undisguised?”</p>
<p>She nodded. “Yes.”</p>
<p>I frowned, a hint of anger stirring in the background. Attacking a just-discovered spy at least had a bit more of an excuse than abusing someone who had surrendered openly, not that I considered either action justified. I pushed that emotion back. “And what did you want to talk to me about?”</p>
<p>Another deep breath. The tremble grew slightly, and her eyes wavered. There was a clear struggle to force herself to speak. “I… I wanted to plead with you.” Her eyes drifted up to mine, then snapped back down to my chest, unable to hold eye contact. “I-I beg you. Please spare my hive.”</p>
<p>My ears drooped once more. The metaphorical weight was heavy on my shoulders. I sighed, and saw Calypter shiver at the sound, assuming the worst. My voice was even quieter when I spoke again. “We are in an awkward situation, aren’t we? I’ve seen enough changelings die for a lifetime, and I have no desire to see more. At the same time… I think it’s clear the current situation can’t be allowed to persist. It’s a problem that’s been hounding me ever since we started this venture, and I still don’t see a good solution.”</p>
<p>“Please,” she said, again trying and not quite meeting my eyes. “You beat us. What more do you want?”</p>
<p>“Myself?” I pondered that for several long seconds before replying. “I was sincere when I was talking to those other ponies. This isn’t about ponies versus changelings. There doesn’t have to be that adversity. If anything, I think this alliance has shown that changelings and ponies can work together, and be stronger for it.”</p>
<p>She looked down.</p>
<p>“I don’t want to see your population exterminated. I would prefer a peaceful resolution. At the same time… your hive has repeatedly hurt ponies through lies and deception. We can’t trust you. I can’t even trust that you’re actually a soldier, and not yet another Infiltrator trying to find some weakness to exploit.”</p>
<p>Her ears drooped, tears gathering. Whether it was a calculated move or true despair, it was still a painfully emotional display.</p>
<p>“Don’t despair,” I said, voice soft and comforting. “I wasn’t trusted when I first revealed myself, either. I earned trust through my actions. The changelings of your hive can do that, too, by showing that they can coexist with others. You have the opportunity to lead the way to a better future, by helping us to bring an end to this conflict.”</p>
<p>Her jaw tightened, ears folding back. A tremble ran through her, though her eyes remained fixed on my hooves. “I-I came to ask for mercy,” she said, her voice tight. “But I will never betray my hive.”</p>
<p>“And I wouldn’t ask you to,” I said. “You clearly have a strong conviction. Whether you’re a soldier or an Infiltrator, you risked your own life to approach an attacking army, intending to speak with a foreign and possibly hostile queen, all with the hope that you might save others in your hive. I’m not going to ask you to betray that. I <i>admire</i> that.”</p>
<p>I raised a hoof, reaching out to her chin and gently but firmly nudging upwards until she was looking at my soft smile. “I want the same thing as you. I don’t want to see more changelings die. So I would ask you, please, help me find a solution to this conflict. Help me show these ponies that we can coexist, and save as many of your hivemates as we can.”</p>
<p>She had gone still. Her expression slowly softened as I spoke, her eyes widening.</p>
<p>The hint of surreality had returned. The scene had a certain familiarity to it, with a scared and desperate changeling looking up to a tender and confident queen, but it was all wrong. I could see myself all too clearly in her. I’d been there before. I could clearly remember the feeling of fear or despair, and the comforting touch of Queen Ephema’s hoof. I remembered feeling so small, yet buoyed up by her presence, her compassion, her confidence. It was almost like looking in a mirror.</p>
<p>Only it was more than just a change in perspective. Now, I was the confident and compassionate queen, calmly and tenderly reassuring a scared changeling. It was all backwards, and should have felt all wrong, but it didn’t. It wasn’t even an act. Everything I had said was what I felt was right. Seeing the fear fading to hope brought a feeling of pride and happiness, a sense that I was doing the right thing. I could save some of these changelings, even if it was just her. I knew already that good changelings could come from her hive, and I hoped that she might be one. From what little I knew of her, I kind of liked her.</p>
<p>At that thought, her reaction made sense. We might be on opposing sides, and I might not be able to trust her, but I did like her. She could sense that. The emotion I was giving off wasn’t of a heartless queen bent on the destruction of her hive and the deaths of her kin.</p>
<p>Of course, she couldn’t trust me, either. A skilled Infiltrator can stir up feelings in themselves, and can retain the clarity of mind to act according to their goals rather than their feelings. While I presented all the signs of being genuinely compassionate, it was perfectly possible that I could be trying to play her. Despite that, my response had apparently been more gentle than she had expected, and must have suggested that her hopes might not have been in vain.</p>
<p>To be absolutely fair, even though I was starting to like her, I wouldn’t have hesitated to blast her if it should become necessary. I’d be disappointed, of course, but I was too well-trained to let emotion get in the way of doing what was necessary and right. They’d tried to assassinate me three times already.</p>
<p>I slowly slid my hoof away, returning it to the floor. “So that brings us to the big question. How do we resolve all of this?”</p>
<p>She blinked, gaze fixed on my smiling face for a moment before she looked away again. “Um… I… I don’t know…”</p>
<p>I hummed thoughtfully. “Well, I suppose we can start by establishing the absolute conditions that must be met, and then working from there. Does that sound good?”</p>
<p>She looked to me again. “Conditions? What conditions?”</p>
<p>“Well, to start with, the people being held in your hive will have to go free.”</p>
<p>“What?” Her wings gave a couple of beats, her head drawing back. “But we’d starve!”</p>
<p>“You would have to make friends with ponies, yes,” I said with a nod. “I’ve already shown that it’s possible to do so openly. I get more than enough love from my friends.”</p>
<p>I finished by inclining my head toward Starlight, who, finding herself suddenly at the center of attention, gave an awkward smile. “Uh, heh, yeah.”</p>
<p>Calypter looked to her, then back to me, her expression hardening. “Friends? Like those ponies who beat me?”</p>
<p>I sighed. “I know, it will be complicated by recent events, but not all ponies are like that. Some of the other Trotsen ponies were trying to stop it. It may not be easy, but there are ponies who would try to help. Gemstone preaches Kindness and Generosity, and I’m sure they’d do what they could. Seroon seems like a very compassionate and wise individual, and I’m sure there are many in Mareford who would follow his lead. And of course, I would be helping. We won’t let you starve.”</p>
<p>Her gaze wavered, finally looking away once more. “Doubt it matters. The hive isn’t going to give them up and trust in pony <i>generosity</i> for survival. You just have to look around the world to see how <i>that</i> went.”</p>
<p>“Then we have two options. Either we, you and I, figure out how to convince at least some of your hivemates to free those prisoners, or we’ll have to figure out a way for the army to rescue them.”</p>
<p>Her ears folded flat. “I won’t help you attack my hive.”</p>
<p>“I understand,” I said, “but they will have to be freed, one way or another. I’d prefer to negotiate their release, and avoid violence. Will you help me with that?”</p>
<p>She hesitated before silently nodding.</p>
<p>“Good. The next condition would be the disarming of the hive. We can’t trust all of your hive to have peaceful intentions, so we’ll have to remove the industrial and military power that let you become such a threat.”</p>
<p>She grimaced. “So we’d be entirely at the mercy of these ponies.”</p>
<p>“You’re already at the mercy of these ponies. At least this way, the ponies will be supporting and protecting you. You’ll have to work alongside them anyway, to develop the friendships you’ll need to survive. We can at least start things off on the right hoof, by making this as peaceful as possible.”</p>
<p>Calypter was silent for several seconds. “...What else?”</p>
<p>I paused, considering that for a moment. “I think that might be it for absolutely necessary conditions. You’d have to surrender to pony authority, of course, but what happens after that is likely to be up for negotiation. I’m sure we can come up with something that’s mutually beneficial.”</p>
<p>“I doubt it,” she mumbled, slowly shaking her head. “You want my hive to give up everything. I don’t think they’ll listen.”</p>
<p>“Then we’ll need to find a way to get them to listen,” I said. “So we need leverage. Something to simultaneously show them that they can not win this, and that these ponies will treat them fairly if they surrender.” I gestured to the vacant window and the pouring rain beyond. “How about the rest of the army? I’m under the impression they’re in bad condition. Battered, low on supplies, exposed to a harsh storm, and with a much larger army between them and the safety of home. I’m guessing that contributed to your willingness to come before me?”</p>
<p>She hesitated, then nodded.</p>
<p>“And are there others who are open to the possibility of negotiation?”</p>
<p>Again, she nodded.</p>
<p>“Then perhaps we should appeal to them. We have supplies and shelter to care for any who surrender. You can serve as an example of the sincerity of the offer. If we can convince them to surrender, they can serve as a similar example to the hive as a whole, and hopefully convince those still in the Stable to surrender peacefully.”</p>
<p>Another pause. “...Okay. I’ll try. I’m just… I’m not sure how many will listen.”</p>
<p>“I know, but we have to try. I think what you’re doing is the best course for the survival of your hive, but I know not everyling will see it that way. I may not know your hive personally, but I know well how strong the devotion can be. There will likely be some who will fight to the death rather than surrender. There may even be some who would prefer to see their hive destroyed rather than compromise. We may face difficulty on both sides, but we will do what we can to save as many lives as possible.”</p>
<p>I saw the tremble run through her, and I lifted my hoof again, this time placing it on her shoulder, reassuring. “I’ve faced the fear of my own hive’s possible destruction, Calypter. I have no desire to see any changeling ever have to go through that again. I hope we can save most of your hive, but even if we’re only able to convince a few other changelings from the army to surrender, at least your hive will have a future.”</p>
<p>She still trembled, eyes watering, but nodded, looking up to me. “Okay.”</p>
<div class="break">☢</div>
<p class="noindent">Two hours later, I sat by a wide upper-floor window, looking out into the storm. The icy mist spattered against my carapace, forcing me to squint into the gloom. The various work lights around the site had been arranged outside the building and turned on. They struggled to pierce the torrential downpour, while leaving the interior only dimly lit, concealing our positions.</p>
<p>Calypter sat nearby, still and silent. She’d already done her part. Before she had set out to see me, she had confided in a few close friends. They’d arranged a frequency and key to communicate privately if some emergency came up. She’d contacted them, detailing what had happened. A few minutes later, she broadcast a wider message to the army, explaining the situation and pleading with her fellow soldiers to follow her lead.</p>
<p>It wasn’t clear yet how well-received the message was, and Serenity had already gone through the process of changing out encryption keys again, leaving us cut out of their communications once more. Her friends had agreed to surrender, and had said they would persuade any who would listen to come as well.</p>
<p>Three minutes ago, her friends had radioed again on their private network. They were heading towards us, with a good number of other soldiers. They were coming in from the southwest, as we had instructed them. Dusty had arranged the most disciplined of the Mareford soldiers there. Two Bits was some ten yards away from me at another window, to watch over events and give directions. Several Mareford Rangers stood guard around us, weapons ready.</p>
<p>We waited, wary and hopeful.</p>
<p>The rain pounded the wet earth in a dull roar, but I caught another sound. There was something faint and distant, almost hidden behind the rain. It repeated several times, without any apparent pattern. It was several seconds before I recognized them as the discharge of magical energy weapons. I peered out into the rain. I saw nothing but darkness.</p>
<p>Seconds later, one of the Rangers at the next window raised her PipBuck, reporting the shots.</p>
<p>Calypter stood—drawing an alarmed twitch from Echo—and moved to the window. Her ears were perked alertly, though she squinted against the blowing rain. “What’s going on?</p>
<p>My own ears drooped. “I think they’re fighting each other.”</p>
<p>Calypter cast an alarmed look my way.</p>
<p>I turned to my own PipBuck. “Dusty? There might be a complication. It sounds like part of the army is trying to stop the changelings who are surrendering. The surrendering soldiers may be coming in under fire.”</p>
<p>“It can never be simple,” Dusty replied with a grumble. Then, more professionally, “I’ll make sure everypony is ready for it.”</p>
<p>“Thank you.”</p>
<p>Calypter was at the window, her hooves on the sill as she watched and waited. I sat, still able to see over the edge just fine. The darkness continued to yield nothing.</p>
<p>The sounds grew steadily louder, and almost a minute later, we could see flickers of red and purple light. They steadily grew, until we could pick out individual bolts of light. A few even sailed out of the darkness; some hit the ground before us, a few sailed overhead, and a couple struck the face of the building.</p>
<p>Multiple calls went out over the radio, ending with a long burst of fire from one of the nearby Rangers. Both Calypter and I flinched at the sound, a string of tracers lashing out at the source of the distant fire.</p>
<p>“Two Bits!” I called out, looking down the wall. “What are you doing?”</p>
<p>“Relax,” he said. “We’re just suppressing that shooter.” The stallion beside him had a belt-fed weapon, and every few seconds put out another second-long burst.</p>
<p>“Just be careful of who you’re shooting.”</p>
<p>“Yeah, we know our job,” he replied, his tone neutral and matter-of-fact rather than offended.</p>
<p>The volume of magical weapon fire rapidly decreased, but didn’t cease entirely. Flashes and flickers of light filtered through the rain. A few flashes lit up silhouettes, fuzzy and indistinct in the rain. Soon those silhouettes started to resolve into hastily moving forms, moving quickly our way.</p>
<p>“Eyes on!” one soldier called out, with reports quickly spreading down the line.</p>
<p>I leaned close to the edge, half-shielded by the wall. A flash of lightning lit the area in a strobe, highlighting dozens of forms before plunging back into darkness. The after-image lingered for a few seconds before clearing enough to find them again. I could make out the pony-like silhouettes of the closest three, moving with obvious difficulty in the thick mud. They staggered and struggled, working hard just to make a slow walking pace.</p>
<p>Several more bolts sailed out from some distant assailant, immediately answered by another long burst of return fire. The incoming forms all staggered and ducked, but were quickly moving again. I could already pick out the silhouette of curved horns, and the occasional glint of blue eyes reflecting the lights.</p>
<p>They were only about twenty or thirty yards out when the lights finally illuminated them. The closest pair trudged through thick mud, sinking nearly to their knees with each step. They carried almost nothing with them, just light armor and mud-caked PipBucks. Light glistened from wet armor and carapace.</p>
<p>I could hear ponies shouting instructions to the incoming changelings, though I couldn’t understand the words past the rain. More changelings were coming into sight. One had a sodden blanket draped across her back and head, reminding me of my early days in the Wasteland. Another still carried her weapon, pulling the sling over her head as she stepped into the light and letting it fall into the mud. Others still had their rifles strapped across their back, seemingly dazed as they trudged forward almost mindlessly toward the waiting shelter. Another changeling was helping to support a companion with an injured foreleg, and from the lack of bandaging or splinting, it appeared to be a very recent injury.</p>
<p>There were even a couple of power armors, including one soldier in Steel Ranger armor with a pair of changelings laid across her back. There were many shouts, and they halted some ten yards out, turning away. The ponies below were taking no chances, making them get out of their armor, then sending out a half dozen ponies to help carry the wounded in.</p>
<p>The firing in the background finally stopped as the final few changelings trudged into sight. The last was a pair, with one changeling weakly struggling to drag another. She floundered, collapsing in the mud, seeming unable to rise again. A squad of ponies made their way out, fighting against the thick mud, and dragged both of them back.</p>
<p>Nothing else moved out in the gloom.</p>
<p>I stood, turning to Calypter. “I’m going to go check on them, to make sure everything is going well. You should stay here for the moment. When I get back, we can see about talking with the rest of your hive.”</p>
<p>She nodded. Even past the spray of mist from the broad window, I could see her eyes were watering again. She was watching the defeat of her hive, and knew she had a hoof in it.</p>
<p>I placed a hoof gently on her shoulder, offering a momentary gesture of compassion before turning and walking away. Starlight and Echo followed; the Mareford soldiers at the entrance could watch Calypter for us.</p>
<p>The ground floor was a busy place. A large room, likely intended as an open office space for a large team, was now filled with ponies and changelings. While there were a few Mareford soldiers standing guard, most were still at the outer walls and windows, ready to defend against any attack. Instead, most of the ponies in the room were from Gemstone, alongside Seroon and a couple of other zebras.</p>
<p>A pair of fire-pits had been arranged on the bare concrete floor, and most of the changelings were huddled around these. It was a pitiful sight. Most were huddled up and shivering, their armor having been traded for dry blankets. I could see one changeling soldier, shaking uncontrollably, and seemingly too worn out to even help as a pair of ponies unbuckled her armor and wiped away the worst of the mud. Her expression was distant, almost haunted.</p>
<p>It was an expression shared by many of the exhausted changelings in the room. As I made my way through the room, few even acknowledged my existence. None spoke. The looks I did receive varied. A few looked to me with hatred. Others, with fear. Several watched with a mix of curiosity and concern, as if waiting to see what this foreign queen did next. But mostly, the ones who looked at me did so almost entirely devoid of emotion, as if too exhausted by their ordeal, both mentally and physically. It was as if they had lost all capacity to care.</p>
<p>Some ponies were starting to pass around small bowls and cups of soup. It looked like a thin vegetable soup, mostly broth. The Gemstone ponies had quickly cooked it up, and while it was probably not very filling, it was something hot, and that likely mattered far more. Changelings cradled the steaming cups and bowls as they were passed out, taking careful sips. Only a few managed glares at the ponies passing it out. Most were too focused on the source of warmth, assuming they were able to summon the emotion to focus on anything at all. Some were clearly just going through the motions, as if lost to a trance. A few were in such poor shape that they had to be helped, with a pony carefully feeding them.</p>
<p>I slowly made my way across the room, to where the heaps of armor, PipBucks, and a few weapons were gathered. It was also where Soaring Heart and a couple of other Loyalists were gathered, tending the injured changelings. The one I had seen with an injured leg now had a simple splint, and Soaring Heart was wrapping some magic-infused bandages around the side of another changeling, who hissed weakly in pain with every movement. I could see the discoloration of burns across her carapace, peeking out from behind the bandage.</p>
<p>I halted a few feet back, giving them room to work. “How are they doing?”</p>
<p>Soaring Heart glanced my way before returning to his work. “No critical injuries. These four are the only serious injuries, and they’re all stable. The only real concern I have now is hypothermia, and Dazzle’s taking care of that. From what little I got out of them, they had almost nothing in the way of shelter or supplies. Most of it went up with their logistics.”</p>
<p>Two Bits had arrived as well, and I spent a short time talking with him, getting more information, before returning upstairs.</p>
<p>Calypter huddled by the wall, and quickly wiped at her cheeks as I entered. I walked up and sat by her side, while she tried to hide her awkwardness.</p>
<p>“Fifty three made it here,” I said, my voice quiet and gentle. “Four were injured, but they’re stable. As for the rest… well, they’re recovering. I know the storm is a strong one, but I hadn’t expected them to be in such poor shape.”</p>
<p>Calypter’s reply was quiet. “You blew up most of our supplies.”</p>
<p>“I suppose we did,” I said, giving a soft sigh. “Well, they’re warming up now, and we’ll see that they get proper food and shelter. How much of the army is still out there?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know,” Calypter murmured. “Maybe a hundred.”</p>
<p>I nodded, mentally correcting my assumptions of their army’s strength. “I hope the rest will surrender before their situation gets even worse.”</p>
<p>She remained silent.</p>
<p>“Well, as much as I’d like to let you rest, I think we may have to move to the next stage.” My horn lit up as I floated over a PipBuck, one of the new ones we had confiscated. “If we want to get a message to the rest of the hive, we’ll need to do it before they change encryption keys again. Do you think you’re up to it?”</p>
<p>She hesitated, but eventually nodded, reaching out to gingerly grasp the PipBuck.</p>
<p>“Do you need any help?” I asked.</p>
<p>She shook her head. “No. I… I already thought out what I should say…” She brought the PipBuck close to her chest, switching over to the radio screen. She switched channels, then reached to the broadcast button. She hesitated, hoof wavering for a moment, and pressed down.</p>
<p>“...H-hello.”</p>
<p>Her voice almost cracked, and she released the button and swallowed. A different voice came across the radio. “Unidentified speaker, Comms reads you. Identify.”</p>
<p>She took a deep breath, exhaled, and pressed the button again. “Hello,” she said again. “M-my name is Calypter, soldier basic grade, currently assigned to second platoon, Alpha company. The army is… is defeated. We can not continue to fight. Most of us have surrendered. They’re allowing me to use this broadcaster to contact you.</p>
<p>“We… we can’t beat them. If we keep fighting, it’s not going to end until we’re all dead.” Her voice choked up, but she pressed on. “We can’t win this, but… but the ponies are willing to negotiate a surrender. They’ve given us food, shelter, and medical aid. We’re being treated well. They’re willing to extend this to anyling who surrenders. If we—”</p>
<p>“Enough!”</p>
<p>Calypter jerked. Even my own heart skipped a beat at the angry voice of Queen Chrysalis.</p>
<p>Calypter fumbled at the broadcaster. “M-my queen! I—”</p>
<p>“Be silent!” Chrysalis snapped. “We have heard enough of your mewling. To imagine that such cowards could have wormed their way into the ranks of our army. These ponies have already destroyed the world. We will not be baited by their lies, and we will not throw ourselves at their hooves, just to be stomped out! They know they will never take our hive, so they try to lure us out to our destruction. And you… you’re working with that treacherous foreign queen, helping them against your own queen and hive.”</p>
<p>“N-no! I’m trying to help us, to save—”</p>
<p>Chrysalis cut her off, practically growling into the radio. “You have betrayed your hive, betrayed me, all for the empty promises of a queen that’s already taken advantage of our hospitality and murdered your sisters. Now you recite her poisonous words, helping her to tear down everything we’ve accomplished. You have turned your back on your hive and your duty. A strong changeling would have been willing to give her life for the good of her hive, but you’d rather be a slave to a new queen, trading the lives of your entire hive for whatever meager comforts she promises you.</p>
<p>“You, and all the other traitors, have turned your backs on your hive, so I turn my back on you. You no longer have a place among us. Better to have died for the good of the hive than to live as a traitor and slave.”</p>
<p>Tears were gathering in Calypter’s eyes, her hooves trembling. “Please, my queen—”</p>
<p>“You do not get to call me that any more,” Chrysalis said, her voice icy. “I do not want to hear another traitorous word from you. Only actions can speak for you, now. You want to earn your place back? Then you turn to that vile and treacherous queen, and sink your horn into her black, shriveled heart!”</p>
<p>Calypter trembled, growing so strong that I could see her horn wobbling back and forth. Tears ran down her cheeks as she struggled to control her breathing.</p>
<p>Her head turned my way, eyes glancing, but she froze again, clutching the PipBuck like a lifeline. Past the pain, I could see struggle, emotions warring against reason. Somewhere in there, I suspect she was evaluating her position, my defenses, Echo’s reaction time, the amount of force it would take to actually penetrate my carapace, all the factors that might go into her queen’s last demand. The odds of success were practically nonexistent, but emotion was unlikely to care.</p>
<p>I raised a hoof again, gently slipping it across her back to rest on her shoulder. She tensed, the tremble growing… and then gave a weak sob, her head slowly sinking. I gave a gentle squeeze, hoping I could give some small degree of comfort, despite being the source of the conflict causing her such anguish. She remained tense, but didn’t fight it. She simply let the PipBuck slide from her hooves as she broke down into tears over all she had lost.</p>
<p>I remained silent, letting her crying run its course. She twitched or jerked every now and then, changing position, starting to push back against my gentle embrace or leaning against my side. A couple times, her horn ended up resting against me. I wasn’t worried, even if I was very aware of it. She didn’t have the room to give a proper stab, and she’d never be able to build up magic quickly enough to strike. Echo was watching her like a hawk.</p>
<p>Eventually, her trembling started to subside, her sobs growing quieter, and I spoke up. “I know my words can’t offer much comfort right now, and I hope you won’t take offense to this, as I don’t intend any insult, but… she’s wrong. We both know you’re not doing this for some personal reward.” I slid my hoof up, gently touching the side of her head, and her eyes cracked open to look at me past all the tears. My own expression was somber, ears low. I could perfectly imagine how much pain she was going through. “Whatever else happens, you have guaranteed that your hive has a future. Remember that.”</p>
<p>Her head slowly sunk down again, eyes closing, but she gave a weak nod.</p>
<p>I gave her a gentle pat on the back. “Take your time. When you’re ready, we can take you to join the others.”</p>
<p>It was a good ten minutes later when she finally wiped away the last of the tears and rose to her hooves. She looked so tired and fragile, even ignoring the lingering injuries, but she forced herself to stand upright. Her hooves were shaky, but she pushed herself on.</p>
<p>I gathered up my bags, and we made our way down. We passed the ground level to reach the warehouse-like tunnels outside the Stable. Unlike the smaller side tunnels, the drains and pumps were keeping the main chambers dry. The sound of rain was distant, echoing faintly from above.</p>
<p>A section of the storage level had been set aside for the surrendered changelings. A group of six Mareford soldiers stood guard at the entrance to that section, and from the looks of their position, Dusty had posted them there as much to keep ponies out as changelings in.</p>
<p>Calypter came to an abrupt halt some ten yards away. I stopped as well, waiting as her mouth moved in a silent attempt to force out the words, until she finally managed to speak. “What do I tell them?”</p>
<p>The small flicker of happiness that she would ask my advice was buried under the weight of what she asked me. “About your queen?”</p>
<p>She nodded, and I sighed. “I’m afraid I can’t offer an easy way out. They’ll find out eventually. It’s unpleasant, but deceiving them is only likely to make things worse.”</p>
<p>She sighed, weakly nodding.</p>
<p>“But Calypter?” She looked up at me, with my ears low and eyes full of concern. “Please, try to be gentle about it, and… and try to keep them from doing anything drastic out of grief. There’s been enough death and suffering already. More won’t help anyling.”</p>
<p>She swallowed, nodded again, and resumed walking.</p>
<p>I let her lead the way past the makeshift walls that separated the changeling area from the rest of the storage lot.</p>
<p>The area we had given them was one of the more pleasant available. Between the two fires and the walls keeping in the heat, it was actually somewhat pleasantly warm, or at least not as frigid as our place upstairs. There was plenty of room for the changelings, and Gemstone ponies were moving around the room, setting out whatever they could arrange for bedding. Dazzle was among them, smiling and talking with a changeling who looked rather more wary about the whole exchange. There were a few more Mareford soldiers, as well, keeping an eye on things. They looked professionally attentive, but relaxed. There hadn’t been any trouble, then.</p>
<p>Blankets had already been distributed to those who had none, and empty crates had been arranged to form makeshift tables and chairs. The fires were both made out of empty barrels, with metal grates set on top to serve as a grill. One already had a large pot bubbling atop it. It wasn’t luxury by any means, but it was at least as much comfort as our own side was enjoying, and apparently far better than what these changelings had out in the storm.</p>
<p>The changelings looked much improved, as well. The dazed and numb looks had faded, even if they hadn’t entirely vanished. Most seemed to be treating their new situation in an admirably matter-of-fact fashion, with neither fear nor hostility. Even the injured changelings were doing well. While two of the injured were resting in their makeshift beds, having been given the best of what was available, the other two were upright alongside their uninjured kin.</p>
<p>The changelings’ reaction to my entrance was less neutral. Most of them looked my way. Expressions hardened, eyes watching me carefully. There was still little in the way of outright fear or anger, but they clearly didn’t trust me.</p>
<p>I stood tall, speaking in a calm but clear voice. “Excuse me.”</p>
<p>All eyes were on me, including Calypter’s. She stood by the nearest group of changelings, her tail tucked down between her legs. I assume she had expected some unpleasant reaction from her fellow soldiers, but they were too focused on me to spare her any attention.</p>
<p>I stepped forward, so I was perfectly visible to all in the room. “I wanted to express my gratitude for your peaceful surrender, and to affirm the promises we have made to you and your hive. I hope to continue working towards a resolution that doesn’t require any more bloodshed. While we continue our work toward that end, I will also be working with Dusty Trails, the commander of this army, to ensure all surrendered members of your hive are properly cared for.”</p>
<p>My horn lit up, the flaps of my saddlebags opening. Six love crystals floated out on my magic, full and glowing. I set them on the nearby table, the closest changelings eying them with surprise and suspicion.</p>
<p>“If there’s anything that you need, or if you feel you are being mistreated, please bring up your concerns with any of the ponies here, particularly Dazzle or the other Gemstone ponies.” I gestured to Dazzle, who smiled and waved to the gathered changelings. I had to smile as well, seeing her happily helping these changelings. She was a perfect embodiment of Gemstone’s ideals, and I had no doubt there were some changelings very confused by the emotions she must be radiating.</p>
<p>I continued. “If they’re not able to resolve the problem, then they’ll bring it to my attention, and I will personally see to it that the situation is taken care of. I know you have little reason to trust me or any of these ponies at this time, but we will do our best to earn that trust through our actions. I just ask that you give us that opportunity.”</p>
<p>With that said, I dipped my head, just enough to show a small degree of respect. Then I turned and made my way back out.</p>
<p>I was just reaching the exit when the first changeling cautiously took up one of the love crystals I had left them. I had a momentary pang of regret. Those were the same crystals Queen Ephema had left behind for my sisters and me. They were one of the few things I had of her.</p>
<p>I shook the feeling off. There was something fitting about this. A new queen, using those very same crystals to feed some lost and scared changelings. The smile returned, and I continued on.</p>
<div class="break">☢</div>
<p class="noindent">Dusty had broken out the food by the time we got back. We shared a meal of old oats with a side of vegetables, then sat back with a dessert of canned fruit. I got a can of peaches in heavy syrup.</p>
<p>I was just starting on it when Starlight scooted up beside me, a can of mixed fruit cocktail held in her magic. “You know, you make a pretty good queen.”</p>
<p>I blinked, almost dropping the slice of peach I was about to eat. I looked over, seeing her warm smile. It took me a moment to formulate a reply, as simple as it was. “Thanks. Though to be honest, I was just doing what felt right.”</p>
<p>Her smile grew, and I could swear there was a glint of mischievousness behind it. “So being the whole super-nice and regal queen is what feels right, huh?”</p>
<p>I snorted out a soft laugh. “Well that’s an incredibly generous way of phrasing it. No, I just had a good role model. Still…” I paused, trying to sort out my thoughts. I finally just shook my head, quietly saying, “I wonder if this was what it was like for Queen Ephema?”</p>
<p>Starlight’s head cocked to the side. “Hmm?”</p>
<p>I floated a slice of peach up, savoring the taste before swallowing. “Queen Ephema wasn’t always a queen,” I said, looking to Starlight again.</p>
<p>She blinked. “Really?”</p>
<p>“Mmmhmm,” I said, nodding. “She was hatched as a regular changeling, just like my sisters and me. When our hive was founded, she was changed into a queen. All it takes is enough love.”</p>
<p>“Really?” she repeated, almost dropping her can. “You mean, you can actually <i>become</i> a queen? Like, for real?”</p>
<p>“That would take a <i>lot</i> of love,” I said. “Normally, an egg would be infused with the love. It takes much less to do so early in development, but there’s nothing preventing it from being done with an adult. It just takes a lot more.”</p>
<p>She was staring at me, wide-eyed.</p>
<p>I responded with a shrug. “We’re changelings. Change is in our nature. Quick shapeshifting isn’t the extent of that magic. It’s like how I heal so fast from injuries. An injured changeling’s natural magic burns through love faster, altering their body to shift away the damage. It’s great, so long as you have enough love.”</p>
<p>“Huh,” Starlight said, setting her can down as she stared off into space. “So… Ephema did that, then?”</p>
<p>I nodded. “Remember, the first Chrysalis was the only queen in her hive. When she died and the survivors scattered, there wasn’t a single queen among them. Our new hive had the option of waiting to raise a new queen from an egg, or elevate an already grown and educated changeling to the role. Given the hive’s precarious position, they couldn’t really wait.”</p>
<p>Starlight nodded. “...So how about you, then? You could be a queen for real, right?”</p>
<p>“I… I could. I don’t know. Maybe.”</p>
<p>“Hmm.” She picked up her can once more, leaning lightly against my side. “Well, I think you’d make a great queen.”</p>
<p>I gave a soft chuckle, smiling down at her. “Thanks. And I guess I’m going to be stuck with the role for at least the next decade or two.” I looked off into space, quietly musing. “It’s kind of nice having the future being clear enough to think that far ahead. Dealing with Serenity is just a matter of ‘when’, not ‘if’, now. After that… I can bring back my hive.”</p>
<p>She grinned. “I’ll bet you do great at it,” she said, then nudged me in the side. “So, think you might have any use for a scavenger, hunter, and guard?”</p>
<p>“I certainly wouldn’t turn down the help, or the company.” I looped a foreleg around her shoulder, giving a soft squeeze. “You sure about that, though? That’s a long time I’m going to be stuck in once place. It’s not exactly great adventuring opportunities.”</p>
<p>“Hey, you remember how we met, right?” She chuckled, tilting her head to point her horn to her Lancer. “Me playing at being a guard. Hunting around in ruins for cool tech is fun and all, but what I really want to do is help protect ponies. Uh, people. And you’ve got like a hundred-something little ‘lings that could use protection. I think I could be happy with that.” She shrugged. “Plus I’ve got the wagon, so I can take off every now and then to scavenge some ruins, just for a change of pace. Pretty much everywhere is ‘nearby’ with that thing.”</p>
<p>Across the room, Sickle started snickering. “Just say you want to fuck her, dumbass.”</p>
<p>“I can have other reasons for sticking around!” Starlight shot back, and stuck her tongue out at Sickle. Then she asked, “What about you? What are you doing after all this?”</p>
<p>Sickle snorted, tipping back her own can to get the last of the pear chunks before tossing the can away. “Fuck if I know. I guess purple-bitch already killed off any raiders in the region—and I’m still tempted to kick your scrawny flank for that—so I don’t have much else to do. Guess I could do whatever I want. I mean, I’m all famous and shit, now. Got to be some opportunity there.”</p>
<p>Starlight sat abruptly upright. “Wait, famous?”</p>
<p>“Well, yeah!” Sickle said, chuckling. “While you dumb cunts were hanging back, I got right into the fighting. First into the bunker, first into this building, and plenty of stomping heads. Plus, you know, I kinda stand out. Gave ‘em a good show, too. One of those Serenity cunts shot me in the side with those big magic guns, gave me a nice new scar, and I just turned and caved her fucking head in, power armor and all. Those Mareford shits looked like they couldn’t believe I was still standing. Kept trying to drag me off for healing.”</p>
<p>I looked to her side and that missing armor plate. She hadn’t removed her armor, but I could still see the knotted, burnt flesh beneath it.</p>
<p>“So yeah, I can pretty much go wherever I want. I dunno. Got to be some group out there that knows how to fuck.” She fished around, eventually pulling out a beer. “Think I might start at your little hive, though. You’ve got ice cream.”</p>
<p>“Ice cream,” Starlight echoed, her voice skeptical.</p>
<p>“Fuck yes, ice cream! Chems I can find anywhere. You know how hard it is to find fucking ice cream?” A grin spread across her muzzle. “Hmm, you got a bunch of freezers and shit there. Maybe I can figure out how my mom made that stuff.”</p>
<p>Starlight’s face went taut. “Your <i>mom?</i>”</p>
<p>“Forget you heard that,” Sickle said, absentmindedly tapping her beer bottle against the bars of her muzzle. “Shouldn’t be too hard. Hmm. Finding milk might be a problem.”</p>
<p>I swallowed the last slice of peach, floating my can over to the collection of empties. “Sickle, you’ve made how many thousands of caps in the last couple of months? You could <i>buy</i> a brahmin for milk.”</p>
<p>Sickle stared silently, blinking. “...Holy shit, I could buy a brahmin. Fuck yes. All the ice cream I can eat.” She leveled a hoof my way. “Okay, I’m crashing with you for a while. Need to do something about the whole ‘fucks’ situation, but we’ll figure something out.”</p>
<p>Starlight managed a strangled chuckle, lost somewhere between hilarity and disbelief. “Seriously? Terrifying raider to raider-hunter to war-hero to <i>ice cream mare?</i>”</p>
<p>“Hey, I can still kick more ass and get more sex than the whole lot of you.” She grinned. “I just get to do all that <i>and</i> have ice cream. Or do you not want any?”</p>
<p>Starlight gaped for a few moments before sitting back. “...Okay, ice cream does sound kinda good.”</p>
<p>“Damn straight it does,” Sickle said, finally turning her attention to her beer.</p>
<p>Starlight softly chuckled, then looked over to Dusty. “So, what about you?”</p>
<p>Dusty looked up from his PipBuck. “Hmm? What about me?”</p>
<p>“What are you going to do after all this?”</p>
<p>He paused, giving it a good long thought before shrugging. “Hell if I know. I think I’m about done with all this army stuff, though.”</p>
<p>“You’ve got to have some idea,” Starlight said.</p>
<p>“Ehh.” He shrugged. “I’m pretty sure Two Bits and some of the other Mareford folk want me to come and help them. Two Bits hinted something about being mayor, but screw that. Then there’s all these changelings that need handling, and nopony knows how they’re going to do that. Hell.” He sighed, sitting back. “At this point, I’m starting to think it might be time to retire. Maybe some light duty, like watching the wall at Gemstone or something.”</p>
<p>I smiled. “Well, if you’re looking to settle down, you’re always welcome at my hive. You probably did more to make this possible than I did. Plus, I’m pretty sure there’s plenty of coffee and cigarettes you didn’t already loot.”</p>
<p>He snorted out a laugh. “I’ll think on it.”</p>
<p>“Guess that just leaves you,” Starlight said, now looking at Echo. “What are your plans?”</p>
<p>“That should be obvious,” Echo replied, setting down her own can. “Once this nonsense is done, I will finally have the time to properly analyze Whisper’s magic and research how it could aid my mother’s cause. Once that’s done, I will finally be able to free ponies from the hazards of the wasteland, by helping them rise above it.”</p>
<p>“Poetic,” Starlight dryly noted, before continuing on more cheerfully. “Personally, I’m thinking saving the world deserves a good vacation. I am going to kick back, relax, and just have fun for a while. Seriously, Echo, try relaxing and having a little fun for a week or two. It’ll help.”</p>
<p>Echo frowned. “Research is fun, especially when it’s magic. Or advanced arcane technology.”</p>
<p>Starlight chuckled, rolling her eyes. “Well, as long as it keeps you happy.”</p>
<p>The conversation meandered on for a good half an hour before fatigue started taking over. I had a smile on my face as I settled down for bed, Starlight cuddling up against my side. There was something nice about being able to just kick back and chat like this, almost unconcerned. It was something we’d been missing the last few days, like a returning piece of normality. A ray of sunshine breaking through the clouds, showing the brighter times lying ahead of us.</p>
<p>There was only a little more to do. We had to finish dealing with Serenity, wrap up the last of the conflict, and we’d be on to new and better things. Already, thoughts were coming together, pieces of a broader scheme falling into place.</p>
<p>But that could wait for morning. There would be plenty of time to think on that. Right then, I just focused on cuddling up with Starlight under those blankets, and drifted off to sleep.</p>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../Misc/typography.js"></script>
</body>
</html>